Bilson pitch is an attorney and anti-war
activists he's been practicing law for
35 years now he's worked on several
important political cases he's been in
court against both the FBI and the CIA
against the FBI in a case where two
political activists for the victims of a
car bombing and against the CIA for
their involvement in the Nicaraguan
Contras ugh trafficking he's also been
involved in cases against the Bush
administration for their civil liberties
clamped down during the war on terror
quote-unquote he's worked on cases of
police shootings in the Bay Area and
most recently cases to make sure the
votes were counted properly in the
California Democratic primaries in 2016
he's also written on political
assassinations during the 1960's to the
murder of Black Panther leaders Fred
Hampton and Mark Clark see a attempts on
the life of Fidel Castro and a whole lot
including a book and a series of
articles on the Kennedy assassination
I'll put links there but the book is
called state secret and it's available
for free on the Mary Farrell site so
welcome bill thank you very much for
speaking with me tonight
Oh David it's been a pleasure so far I'm
looking forward to doing this good me
too I think this is going to be really
interesting there's so many things in
your career that are very interesting
and they all kind of tied together I
wanted to start with a quote that you
put in your intro to state secret so
whether you agree with basically your
findings on the JFK assassination or not
the important thing is to take on this
case and other cases like it
we need more historians and researchers
that are willing to roll up their
sleeves instead of rolling over for
another paycheck so you've had a long
career in you know civil liberties law
civil rights law you've taken on the two
biggest intelligence agencies in the
United States and you've written about
these assassinations so so what is it
that you feel ties all these things
together for you well it's funny I
there's like a you can call it a hidden
history of the United States I will
always liked history more than anything
else and as I get older I realized
there's more that we don't know there's
what we know and it's not like we can't
find it out but we've got to get the
documents released to learn about it
because uh so many things are now
classified or even reclassified at the
archives in washington they'll actually
take documents that have been released
and they'll reclassified so it makes for
a daunting effort and that's why i never
get mad when people don't understand a
certain subject or just miss everything
is conspiracy because it takes a
something's real study you got to redo
have to roll up your sleeves and you
have to really care about it not
everybody likes history that's okay I
know I don't like television very much
that's okay you know these are all about
choices but if you want to have society
that's based on good information you've
got to make the choice to seek out that
information and not act on and so where
it takes me where my fascination lies is
in the counterintelligence field because
the counterintelligence field is when
people start engaging in deceptive
practices like that which includes
deceptive information to other spies
which then graduates in summonses to
deceptive operations that fool the
populations of entire countries like who
you know who set off a bomb and for what
reason who committed an assassination
for what reason these kind of shocks you
know dislocate societies and turn them
in a different direction in in Italy it
was called the strategy of tension you'd
blow up a train terminal and kill a lot
of people and then people would blame
the Communists and then everybody go
after the left in general and then the
right would take power that kind of
machination fascinates me and when you
study war that's why most wars start is
with these kind of deceptive operations
you know the Germans say the Polish
attacked us they attack Poland next
thing you know it's world war two right
and so we've seen this more and more
especially in the United States you know
we have this whole series of events that
you know all the kind of official voices
are putting out the same story but
there's this huge undercurrent of
citizenry you know a huge percentage the
large majority
citizenry kind of sees these things in a
different way in almost every scandal
that I can think of for the last since
World War two
you know the intelligence agencies have
been deeply involved so maybe we can
kind of go through that track you know
you're you've actually lived to this
you've been involved in these cases so
maybe we can kind of follow your life
through and your experiences through
because you do recall the Kennedy
assassination so why don't you talk how
that affected you as a kid and well when
I was a kid in 58 I was seven years old
the Yankees won the World Series and I
was really excited but I realized that I
didn't really know anything about
excited and really been following
baseball so the next year in 59 I
started reading the paper every day when
it came so I got into I got into
baseball but then I found myself reading
the front page too so I started
following politics current thing I
remember about all this is a series of
soldiers in 1959 and 60 are defecting to
the Soviet Union when I asked my parents
why would soldiers be defecting to the
Soviet Union and they could they said we
don't know we don't understand it either
and that was one of those soldiers of
course and it struck me it was like the
first time my life my parents didn't
really have a good answer for what was
going on in the world so then you know I
was a Catholic kid and we were all very
excited when Kennedy got elected and
really admired his presidency and then
of course you know the day it happened
and then of course two days later oz
will get shot on live TV I was watching
at the time now I was playing with a
little edge of sketch board and I just
learned how to if you do the lines
closely enough you can see inside the
board you see how the fingers of the you
know machine moved and I always felt
that that was kind of what happened to
me you know when the moment Oswald got
shot because that's when you got to see
the fingers move
you know Jack Ruby you know a mobster
type takes out Oswald and I was so
excited I was terrific that I was told
he'd been assassinated and I'm jumping
up and down with glee and I was like the
Yankees game
and my parents you know Republicans of
course you know they were horrified
they're absolutely horrified I couldn't
understand why they weren't as delighted
as I was and so you know it was one of
those things that you kind of like set
the scene I didn't think about the
Kennedy assassination very much for the
next 25 years but I did think a lot
about civil rights and I got into you
know the fight to defend the Panthers
and I got into the fight to defend
anti-war activists and I became an
anti-war activist and it was this very
logical place to be the Panthers helped
educate me when I was an 18 year old kid
in Washington DC you know about the real
repression in the United States I you
know I knew it was bad for black people
but I didn't know it was quite like you
know hunting down political activists
killing him in bed like Fred Hampton and
69 and Mark Clark so all that stuff
really helped to educate me and it
pushed me into one and be a lawyer again
I wanted to see how the fingers of the
monster moved and so I got into that and
you know I don't like lawyers basically
I don't like the law basically I do like
justice I do like uh investigation
so the investigative side was what I've
enjoyed the most and in that context I
started taking more and more civil
rights cases and eventually one that I
got involved in after doing some police
cases was the bombing of some colleagues
of mine I talked to Judy berry on the
phone because she was getting so many
death threats and I advised her you know
the best I could on how to deal with the
death threats and how to deal with the
media in a month later her car's blown
up with her boyfriend in it they were
doing organizing tour for Earth first
because they were trying to cut down all
the redwoods in our part of the world
and and it was a real problem obviously
because they got arrested for carry the
cops said they were carrying the bomb
knowingly and they were the cops were
relying on the FBI the FBI and earth
first had been having a lot of
confrontations about direct actions but
they'd always done monkey-wrenching
style
non
explosive type destruct you know
destruction nah flames not bombs not
that kind of thing
more monkey-wrenching so I know I've
made the distinction very clear in my
mind and so did the people in my
community we had 150 people surround the
police department for days camped out
there and said you know you've got to
let these people go well they did
finally let him out of Jarrell out of
jail her boyfriend but Judy almost died
because the bomb went on right under her
butt and so she was in serious shape in
the hospital for like a month they did
finally not press charges a DA threw up
his hands and said I don't have enough
evidence and but you know their
reputation
it would really been seriously damages
you can imagine
so I told let them know I worked on the
case in the first few days on the
criminal side and I said I'd be glad to
help you guys and they called me up and
I put a legal team together and step
back a bit because I don't even
practicing you know a few years and
brought in some older guys we had a
great legal team and we kicked the FBI's
ass for 4.4 million dollars along with
the Oakland Police and 80% of the
findings of money were based on First
Amendment injuries to their organizing
activities that was what was most
powerful about the whole effort was that
it the jury got it they said you
arrested these people because they were
organizers so that was fundamental for
me and then in the middle of all that uh
you know - you know we never solved who
killed who tried to kill Judy but we did
see all the ups and downs and
conspiratorial type thinking and saw the
dangers in it as well as the upside of
you know challenging the system the
downside of trying to link everything to
everything else the importance of
following the breadcrumbs and not
getting dis way it is or distracted so
that's when I started getting very
excited about the tools I was developing
as a annal as what I call an analyst
because I think all of us if we think of
ourselves you know doing this work as
analysts
you know we're a lot better off because
you know it's one thing to do the
research but then you got to figure out
what it means and that's where the tough
thinking comes into play and I found the
Kennedy case a useful tool for that in
getting through this duty very case
because it made me separate the wheat
from the chaff er if you will dish it
from the candy uh and then after in the
middle of all that I mike ruppert
because i don't know if you know his
name but Mike came up to me and said you
know we got this case in LA you know and
I was a cop and I know that a Gary Webb
got the story right about the you know
the way they bought this cocaine in the
Los Angeles through the african-american
community and up from the wars in
Nicaragua and I've been studying the
drug trade forever so I said yeah that's
a natural for me I'll take the
conspiracy theory out of it you know the
part about trying to enslave black
people because I that wasn't the intent
that was a result I think everybody's
analyzed it would agree with me it
wasn't aimed to destroy black people it
was aimed to make lots of money and fuel
the Nicaraguan wars so uh and we did
very well uh in the initial stages with
that I mean I did it as a not a lark but
as a educational lawsuit I figured we'd
get nowhere the City of Oakland wanted
to join our lawsuit the City of Oakland
wanted to file its own lawsuit we went
to the city and did a presentation and
the City Council voted in our favor
unanimously the problem frankly why I
didn't get farther was we raised
everybody's hopes but everybody was so
paranoid
so post-traumatic stress and so
conspiratorial that prank fun I'm a
white I wanted african-americans to lead
the church and an african-american
attorney did two of them actually joined
the case which really helped but the
problem was deeper than the color of the
attorney the problem was in the
conspiratorial mindset I I did feel that
african-americans should be leading this
more strongly and in an organized
fashion with a good core group of
organizers and what I had around me
was mostly white people and whether they
were white black they're all hopelessly
paranoid uh except for the attorneys
that gun and uh that it wasn't a good
organizing model uh felt it needed
stronger political leadership and and
where things really cratered at the end
uh we were just getting started with you
know some real litigation and it
wouldn't have lasted long I'm sure the
judges would have snuffed it out but
what really killed it was this one woman
in Florida heard about the case and she
filed her own case in Florida which I
thought was great but then she tried to
join her case to the case in California
and went to a multidistrict panel of
judges and said can I move the case to
California and they said no we got a
great idea we'll move all the cases to
Florida and you can imagine what the
Florida judges are like and I wasn't
about to let the case go to a clora to
judge and so when they did that stunt it
was done to kill our case and I folded
my arms refused to work on it on purpose
because they dismissed it not on the
merits but on for lack of prosecution
which is what I wanted at that point
because note there wasn't a judge in
Florida that would have given us a fair
trial there probably wasn't a judge in
California that we're giving the Spear
trial but we could have at least gotten
better me so that's how that ended but I
feel good about it nonetheless because
some year someone will pick it up and do
it all over again and and that's what
that kind of case takes uh so now what
I'm using and we talked a little about
maybe some of the facts of that because
it was kind of interesting I remember in
the complaint itself there was the
discussion about the letter that the CA
had from attorney general French I
believe Fred Smith right so he had a lot
of the facts of it sure the letter said
and this was not unusual the letter
basically said the Attorney General
agrees that he will not prosecute
anyone who is basically an employee or
agent of the CIA who is running dope or
covering for people running DUP and so
we took that central fact and we pushed
it out there to millions of people over
the internet and they had a great time
doing it
it was hideously embarrassing for the
CIA in fact when uh when Gary Webb found
that out in his research that you know
he forced the CIA to change their policy
in that regard but we showed that it
been that way from 82 to 95 and then
Rupert and Peter Dale Scott dug up some
documents showing that from 56 to 75
that same policy was in place only
during the church committee era was
there a window and then supposedly now
which I frankly bet has been closed
again because if you read those
documents they make it clear that the
CIA decides when and if they will
interdict or get in the middle of a drug
trade or drug economy and they know when
they do it the whole economies are going
to rise and fall based on whether they
get in the middle of it because one half
of all economies are based on and I get
this from the government not from me or
based on the sale of drugs in the sale
of weapons I mean those trades are
absolutely enormous and if you interfere
with the drug trade you're going to
really damage another country's economy
so it's Apple is explicitly political
and Peter Dale Scott has been my guiding
light because Peter says you know what
good is it to understand the overground
economy if you don't understand the
underground economy so I was thinking of
going into the Kennedy case at this
point because it's kind of the analogy
Sicily and what's the point of knowing
history if you don't know the real
history and at the same time you don't
want to get caught up in an endless
tangle of conspiratorial might events
and so for me the best answer
is to do some real dogged analytical
research into what is documented and
figure out if we can you know make the
circle of known facts larger and happily
if we've been able to do in the last 10
20 years with the new releases thanks to
the Oliver Stone movie JFK we've got six
million more documents in the public
domain and nobody's really read them and
I'm not trying to read them all but I'm
trying to read a few of them and what I
found is just astonishing your state
secret book is a real examination of
what happened in it kind of is centered
around Oswald's trip to Mexico City so
that's been your focus I'm interested in
a couple things first why why did you
pick that and then second you know I am
interested in what are the tools you
used you know do you use chronologies
when you're kind of how do you when
you're going through all these documents
how do you organize them so that you can
understand them like what's the actual
tools you use to kind of keep this stuff
together in your mind as you go through
all this stuff well it's really funny
because one thing I don't use we're
pieces of paper that's what's so much
fun about it you know I can create lists
like Kronos absolutely on my computer
and but you know you know I just put
them in Gmail and I just you know create
a karana I create a little storyline you
know I just keep me I have hundreds of
boxes but then if I want to find
something I just you know use like I bet
you a lot of you all do is use my gmail
as a database and I call up a keyword
like you know somebody's name or
somebody's number you know all these
people have numbers and and then I find
what I've done over the years it pops
right up for me so it's a never-ending
source of fascination it's like doing
puzzles you know in the newspaper it's a
it's a lot more meaningful because
you're active with what I finally found
myself doing along with John Newman is
cracking what's called the pseudonyms
and the cripton um's of these agents and
in their sources and that then you can
put the whole jigsaw puzzle together
because now you know who is
who you know these gia CIA FBI documents
are at hieroglyphics anymore people have
actual names they've got actual
locations and they've got actual
informants and their names are with us
and such so tell you know taught you you
want to talk some about state secret I
yeah I do I can't picture it and I'm
going to answer your central question
about why I did it I did it because I
didn't know who impersonated Oswald but
I wanted to see if I could prove that
Oswald was impersonated everybody kept
you know hemming and hawing on sat
they're gone well gosh isn't this pretty
important the guy who's supposedly
killed a president knighted States was
impersonated in Mexico City six weeks
earlier what's this about so my
tentative conclusion and it's tentative
on the aspect of whether we actually
went to Mexico City or not a lot of
people think he did I think he actually
went but I could be wrong but what I
realized was that was very important
whether he went or not what was really
important was that he was clearly
impersonated on the telephone on
September 27 28 and October first and
when I put and I feel like I proved that
Jeff morally a former Washington Post
reporter who does a JFK fax agreed and
he put it his blog he's very skeptical
guy he goes bill sibich has proved this
beyond a reasonable doubt and I'm very
proud of that because Jeff is a tough
tough question and very skeptical and
what I think is deduced from the fact
that he was impersonated which is a
longer discussion why I think it was
impersonated but the bottom line is
whether the transcripts of the phone
calls are true or false the fact is is
somebody there was a wiretapping system
in Mexico City and the transcripts from
that wiretap which we were very lucky to
have say that Oswald was at the Cuban
embassy on the 28th of September that
was a Saturday afternoon
the embassy wasn't open that afternoon
uh the woman who was there in the
embassy said he didn't come that
afternoon and they know and for a host
of reasons I think it's proven beyond
reasonable doubt that he did show up at
the Cuban embassy at all that day either
the transcript was cooked or the phone
call was cooked but it's it's it's phony
baloney and I am of the opinion there
was a couple phone calls at other times
specifically on the 1st of October that
were not done by Oswald either it was
somebody pretending to be Oswald and see
how far they could get but I think the
but this is entering the hypothesis
level now but my hypothesis is the
reason that Oswald was impersonated was
because uh someone wanted to insert
Oswald into the story in a very curious
way and shake up the Mexico City station
because they after all were the people
who knew people's voices you know they
they had a guy there named Boris Tarasov
who studied everybody's voices very
carefully and he testified that he
listened to the boys and he couldn't uh
you know it was a voice he was not
familiar with and and that there's more
to it but the bottom line was I think
that this entire episode was done to
start a mole hunt over at the Mexico
City station designed to try to figure
out who was trying to spoof up
impersonate Oswald and that dragged in
Jim Angleton's
a team which has a team of
counterintelligence top of the line
people who were literally the spies who
spied on spies to make sure the CIA was
not penetrating and this is why I'm so
wounded this comes down when you think
about the CIA being penetrated at a high
level which has happened to the FBI on a
couple of occasions which I think a lot
of your list
may know about when this happens you uh
you've kind of killed off the efficacy
of large parts of the agency if you've
got enough moles inside agency you get
all their secrets and the agency
literally has to dissolve and start all
over again
I mean said this has happened in history
I can't recite chapter and verse but I
can tell you the tap and when it when it
when intelligence agency is compromised
they have to quit and start all over
because though all they've got the under
Secrets and if they can't keep the
secrets they got big it start all over
so it's a fascinating world and the more
you think about you go oh my god these
people control you know the wiretapping
now of course what happens obsolete now
it's all you know uh you know getting
the people cell phones if two computer
networks but you know between what's
called signals intelligence which is
capturing other people's signals
intelligence so you understand what
their leaders are saying you understand
how their bodyguards are operating and
you understand how their weapons are
protected and detonated or prevented
from being detonated and you control the
crown jewels of that country I mean that
country can operate with that to say
that's big big stuff that that's bigger
than any military because this is the
stuff one talk of the military its
intelligence so you think about it you
know it's been very humbling for me
because I hate Connor so I was brought
up Catholic and I don't like people who
lied to see but I don't think we need to
blue line to see but I it's educating me
the point you do need good analysts what
you don't need or keep people creepy
crawl in and tap in and and listening in
assassinating other people's leaders and
other and diverting other people's
economies with things like arms and
drugs and this is the way the world
operates and anybody who's in politics
will tell you this if they're truthful
the difference is you can't tell the
populace this because they'll go crazy
and as a result you know we're caught up
in all these stupid conspiratorial
discussions when we should be talking
about it
you know the rms trade and how to limit
it in a realistic way and the drug trade
how to take the profits out of it in a
realistic way no the best way to do that
is stop war and legalize you know drugs
and none of these things are possible
these are not pipe dreams these are
economic enterprises war is a racket as
far as I'm concerned to make people
money and you take the profit out of war
you won't get more you'll have to
conflict sure but you're not going to
have these you know trillion dollar
episodes where you know the United
States is bombing the you know what out
of Afghanistan halfway around the world
to get a handful of so-called terrorists
living in a cave I mean you have you
really have to smoke an awful lot of
marijuana to come up with anything as
stupid as that as a foreign policy but
that's we've done and now we're locked
into war and Afghanistan we don't know
how to get out of it you know Trump
can't get us out Obama can't get us out
nobody's going to get us out anytime
soon because this is too profitable the
way it is it's not a dilemma it's a it's
a nightmare of our own making that's
what I'm suggesting
Saudi Arabia Pakistan were the ones as
anybody who's studied 9/11 will tell you
that really kicked off that war and they
did it for their own selfish economic
reasons
Saudi Arabia wanted to be at the top of
the heap of the fundamentalist crowd in
and they have access to the oil they got
access to the money and the power and
they they like things the way they are
they wanted to keep them that way and
now you got us bombing do you know what
out of Iran and Iraq and Saudi Arabia
has made out like a bandit because those
countries were their enemies worked very
well for them Pakistan the
pakistan-afghanistan border is one of
those two morphus things in the world
you could argue that most of the attacks
you know if you know we're launched from
Pakistan just as well as Afghanistan
after well where did they find Osama
yeah today Pakistan all the intelligence
in Pakistan half those people are
people who hate the United States who
are fundamentalists you know the Irish
crowd has no problem getting inside
there but this is what we created isn't
totally Orwellian situation here's a
mightiest army fighting you know 100 and
200 and 300 terrorists and now we're
creating new terrorists every time we
bomb a country so this is a racket and I
I think you gotta study history closely
to understand it and the Jack Kennedy
story is so evocative in this regard
because the Cuba story is exactly the
same story in many ways as the story
we're dealing with now here's a handful
eight hundred people come out of the
hills and basically took over the entire
island of eleven million why did that
happen because millions of people Cuba
supported those 800 who walked out of
the hills and marched into Nevada
didn't take a lot of intelligence to
know that patita was you know raping
Cuba crazy with prostitution and rum in
drug sales and gambling and all the
Western vices we would go there and use
that place as a bathroom as a toilet
it was terrible the way we treat Cuba
and they recovered their dignity you
know
it I don't care whether you're a
socialist or a communist or a Republican
or Democrat what happened Cuban my mind
was a wonderful thing
access is sure but that's not the point
the point is they recovered their
dignity they control their own economy
the Soviets do not control their economy
the Americans do not have not been able
to control their economy but the
Americans knock themselves out by trying
to take over that country uh and in a
miserable failure they couldn't do it
thank God we didn't get to Al and work
you but we'd probably still be there
fighting out snipers um so in the middle
of that whole drama around Cuba Jack
Kennedy gets killed now some people say
that he was killed so that we declare
war on Cuba some people
don't you know I'm kind of torn between
the two I think some of the people in on
the hit probably hoped he wasn't a Cuba
and I think some of them knew he
probably would okay I'm here to tell you
nobody wanted to attack you with the day
Kennedy died no matter who had done
everybody would just was horrified and
all that war-making energy within months
got pushed towards via because people
that that's a better way to do it and if
you go to the NSA museum about the gulf
of tonkin which happened in August of 64
which is what really kicked off the war
when we allegedly were attacked by the
North Vietnamese the NFA will tell you
in their own museum that entire Gulf of
Tonkin think was a total fraud and and
you can read documents online from the
NSA a very good monograph on that very
subject and that Gulf of Tonkin incident
was like 9/11 in 1964 that's what kicked
off the Vietnam War telling Jack Kennedy
wasn't there anymore to stop at LBJ and
no was there and he saw it as the easy
way to win election and gain control
over the country in a big way so we
could have guns and butter and that's
what happened
we got social programs and we got war
and we've been in war mode more or less
ever since
yeah no absolutely what so you know uh
you actually I was watching some video
of you speaking online and you mentioned
this was more about the recent primary
elections but you made a quote our
society simply isn't functioning well
and there are many reasons for this
with all these things that we're talking
about here would you include you know
the death of John Kennedy how did all
these things build up to bring us where
we're at today where we've got total
mass surveillance a president Trump a
Democratic Party that seems unable to be
in opposition of any sort do you think
all these things played into this or is
this just a happenstance of history and
would have been like this anyway well
you know that's a very good question of
the happenstance of history because you
know you go back
to the end of World War two things were
a terrible situation
no question about it but America really
was the first among equals like we are
now we had the opportunity to set the
world anew and in some ways we did you
know the Marshall Plan was really good
we helped a lot of countries get back on
their feet you know including our
adversaries like Germany Italy Japan
that was very smart uh but you know but
there was a darker side you know a nasty
side that came out as well and it's the
push for world hegemony and you know
what
the Korean was a good example when the
Korean Conflict took took off a few
years after the war started uh we almost
attacked China uh and even Douglas
MacArthur what we know was said by the
end of his life a land war in Asia it's
really not a good idea but he was so
gung ho in that moment he almost got us
into a way I'm luring Asia and it took
Truman to fire him to stop it so then
everything went into an air war which we
don't really even know about but we
killed probably more Koreans that we did
the enemies something on the level of
three million dead North Vietnamese we
drove that in taught at North Koreans
apart we drove that entire country into
cakes and that's why you got people like
Kim il-sung and his progeny there now
they are completely paranoid I mean what
happened to that they are completely
post-traumatic stress and you know like
everybody in a war you know I understood
my parents generation a lot better now
which perspective they were all
post-traumatic stress they almost saw
the end of the world you know and that's
what they saw in Korea that's they saw
in Vietnam these wars if you can't put
these wars out all you do is create more
and more craziness that's what we've
done we've created a hint from a handful
of terrorists we've now created armies
of you know hundreds of thousands of
terrorists thanks to our bombing where
people like Obama you know gets handed
the Peace Prize and generally I think
does believe in peace
is a constitutional law professor he's
not a military guy he was out there
bombing seven countries right you know
and that's a hell of a that's a hell of
a testimony you know to have to one's
presidency if you get the Peace Prize
now the president has relatively little
power at this point because we've put
ourselves in such a box with our
multiple Wars and the hatred that we've
stirred up by refusing to stop selling
arms to refuse to stop the trading of
drugs to refuse to stop the you know
bombing of countries in an effort to get
our way okay and you know it's it's more
than a problem you know at this point
it's it's disease and it's bringing down
the United States and I don't want to
see it happen you know Bernie Sanders
who I think well I'm sorry to say you
know would probably bomb seven countries
himself is still a better choice than
people like Hillary Clinton and Donald
Trump because he if nothing else he
understands the importance of education
for all and health care for if you got
those things off the table
it's a lot easier to focus on getting
things done but at this point you know
if you travel through the heartland of
the United States what if you leave New
York and San Francisco in the coastline
there's no jobs you know these jobs have
been exported to third-world countries
like Vietnam and you know and Apple
normally supposedly progressed a
competent companies have you know these
people living in virtual slave labor so
it's a terrible about that we've created
I don't care what your politics are with
your capitalist or socialist uh it
doesn't make any sense
under either economic system to be
babying the way we are so I come out
saying look you got to stop the war
machine you got to stop
the sale of drugs for profit it keeps
coming back to that from because that's
one half of the entire economy and
how many people are talking about that
only a relative handful of us but
everybody knows going on they just don't
have the vocabulary foot they don't have
and that's what I'm devoting the rest of
my life to is helping develop the
vocabulary when we kind of look at what
happened in the DNC in 2016 we kind of
got to see a little bit of the secret
side there with the the WikiLeaks emails
and all that but oh it was wonderful
that was terrific yeah and did you see
the transcripts from the court hearing
those lawyers down in Florida sued the
DNC for basically running a cooked
primary saying you know the DNC got what
they wanted they got they got the result
they wanted because they were going to
make sure the Bernie Sanders didn't win
and what came out of the hearing was DNC
people said look we don't have to run at
the Democratic Party but the Democratic
party doesn't have to be democratic we
can run the party any way we want and
the courts don't have any say which I
thought and I thought it was just
perfect because that says it all in a
nutshell what we'd been saying for the
last year with Bernie Bernie you know
who I love but he is a flawed vessel
because he can't break clear of you know
his own state's reliance on the
stupidest war machinery in the world
what's at the f-35 yes they cost a
billion dollars a plane nobody thinks
they're any good even the military of
the door any good yet they're propelled
to keep creating them because the
economy of Burlington Vermont depends on
I mean this is the kind of illness that
the country is that is literally
destroying the United States uh and you
know anybody who cares about the world
forget about the United States for a
minute does not want to see us go down
in flames in an ugly fashion if we're
going to break apart let's break apart
slowly like so be good I'm afraid that's
where things are going if you don't have
a Congress it works if you don't have a
presidency that works if you don't have
a Supreme Court that works maybe we just
kind of to you know decentralized and
have the country you know operate in
smaller pieces give more power to the
states give more power to the
localities but uh this isn't work it's
an empire that's lost its way because we
don't have a direction and we don't have
a direction because we've you know
gotten too deeply into the profits of
things like war and drugs
so I don't want to sound like a Johnny
wound up but uh you know when you see
the rich getting richer and the poor
getting poorer and trillion dollar war
is that you can't stop with your liberal
or conservative you got it
say there's something here that where
you got to cut out the profit
what is your feeling of my personal
feeling of the Trump Russia thing
whatever is really going on there a lot
of people are using it as an excuse but
we also see there a lot of involvement
in secrecy and secret dossiers and
intelligence agency so you know what is
your what is your take on that is
getting rid of Donald Trump going to fix
all the ills of the United States or no
not for a minute
I mean he's demented I mean this the
first time we've ever had a demented
president where someone literally I
think is you know suffering from you
know mental problems so deep that you
know people like Mike Pence may have to
take him out so but but Mike Pence is
hardly the solution and Hillary Clinton
is hardly solution it would take you
know somebody like Bernie Sanders to
move us towards the road of you know
redemption for like a better word but I
don't know the bottom line is you know
it might talk about Bernie was if he'd
won last year you know which I think he
would have if they hadn't thrown some
dirty tricks is what he would have been
stuck with 525 people in Congress who
hated his guts
he would have had about 10 or 15 people
who liked him we wanted to start a
campaign to stop the war machine in
Congress and Bernie Frank said let's cut
it but let's cut the military budget by
one quarter with it that was very modest
suggestion we did a vote count how many
boats we would get out of 535 there were
thirty to forty votes for them how do
you know we got a long row out of us in
terms of you know this is why I think
you know at the end of the day
you know if the Democratic Party can't
be reformed it has to be destroyed uh it
may take 20 years and I don't know if
we're going to live through it but I
think that's what we're coming down to
these are hard questions I mean you know
Israel I don't hate you is real but I do
hate what they do the Palestinians know
settlements and I do hate the fact of
building a wall for the entire country
and you ask the people in Congress you
know where do you stand on Israel well
you know the vote in the Senate is a
hundred to nothing including Bernie
Sanders in favor of Israel and against
the Palestinians you know who are
definitely the people who lost their
homeland in the last seven years well
these are hard questions and stuff you
know it's not restricted to here it's
kind of a seems to be spreading this
kind of it's a mentality that's going on
alarm by these heavily armed countries
they're going to keep out who you know
there's kind of a common theme it's not
just Trump or this of that
no no Israel's like the little United
States I mean most the people who in
that country at this point they speak
with a Brooklyn accent you know I don't
hate Israel I'm just saying what's going
on you've got it you've got an enormous
displacement of people there that
displacement is caused worldwide fervor
which is you know led to events like
9/11 and until there's justice like
there was in Ireland
you know they've Irish managed to figure
out a way to resolve their difficulties
you know it can be done but if you don't
without a lot of goodwill and a real
determination to end the profit of
keeping the conflict going you know I
mean it wasn't until the IRA started
bombing downtown blood and threatening
the banks and threatening you know the
royalty and everything they hold dear
did the Brits say you know what we got
to work this out that's not a happy way
to resolve things but I'm just saying
that you've got to look at the power
structure in the face in these
situations and that's what people United
States are unwilling to do because this
is an empire that is profited off having
a lot of colonies by selecting British
much like the Portuguese much like an
Spanish
there's nothing evil about it I mean
that's how you know civilization moves
forward but you have to admit the error
at some point of you know that kind of
thinking and saying you know we've got
to change it and that's what this
country has got to do it's got it say
you know we stand for human rights we
stand for justice and we're going to
take the profit out of these enterprises
that are making life so misery air think
is such a fight right now it's like are
we going to give our own citizens you
know freedom from worrying day and day
out about healthcare Canada said yes
most of the other countries in the world
said yes eventually this country is
going to say yes are we going to live
long enough to see it I think we are but
that's why it's a big a struggle over
the domestic side of the United States
right well what is I mean you lived
through the all these things we're
talking about JFK assassination
COINTELPRO the murder the Black Panthers
murder Martin Luther King murder Robert
Kennedy how these how did all these
events how do you think the country
would be different if if all of those
men have all those men and women and
everybody who was repressed during the
60s and 70s had you know not been
repressed that J Edgar Hoover not been
able to get away with what he got away
with and others oh the good question
good question and I would add that less
people are Jimi Hendrix because you know
Henry's album came out 50 years ago this
week you know for my money the best
guitarist is one of the greatest
musicians of the century and he was the
avatar of the forces of change you know
the you know of the dynamics like occupy
and Bernie Sanders so many other
positive things we see today but in the
aftermath of Kent State and everything
else within months you know when Jimi
Hendrix went down that was the biggest
blow to the spirit of people at that
time I'd say was as big or not bigger
than Jack Kennedy or Bobby Kennedy among
young people I mean all over the world
he stood as a force of liberation and
his manager I was reading about it this
morning his manager had a long
military intelligence history and you
know people say well Jimmy drank from
you know taking barbiturates and
drinking wine well I was reading about
the autopsy reports today and he didn't
drink virtually any of that one there
was almost no wine in his stomach most
of the wine within his lungs and in his
nose and what that says to me and other
people is that he was held down and they
smothered him in one I mean that's just
the sides that's what the pathologist
thought at the end of the day they think
he drowned and was held down and it he
had ingested almost no wine by the time
of his death and he very well may have
been given the barbiturates and then
died when I read it I didn't believe it
I forgot about it
for many years and about 10 years ago my
guitar teacher turned to me and said you
know there's been a lot of study this
they think he was killed for 10 years I
said I was going to study it today I
studied it I tell you it's a haunting
story I've got to study it more but it
would make sense and my point here is
simply this the people who inspired
people and most in the 60s were people
like Jack Kennedy and Bobby people like
Malcolm and Martin Luther King you know
people like Al Lowenstein near the end
people like the Jonestown a collective
out Indiana they inspired everybody in
San Francisco and we used to march
side-by-side in big pickets you know
there were a community of wonderful
people and Jim Jones the leader of that
group you know he was scared that his I
studied it enough to come to my own
conclusion he didn't want the CIA
connections that he had had in its past
run to come out he had a long history
CIA connections in his past and he was
afraid they're going to be revealed and
that's how he engaged in what I call a
murder-suicide
of those people in Jonestown uh so he
over and over again now it would you
study these big
assassinations uh it's pretty clear to
me that they were it hit by an organized
group of people not necessarily the same
people in each instance but people with
a common goal to kill the dreamer you
know and it took me a long time to come
to that conclusion but assassination is
a political act there's no two ways but
it's too dangerous to do otherwise
you've got to be very well organized
because nobody wants to spend the rest
of your life in prison they want to get
away with it and in every one of those
assassinations I can say with a great
deal of confidence people who were the
main movers got away with it the people
who were left behind were patsies
nothing more a bobby kennedy is the best
example in a way when you get right down
to it because the coroner did the most
careful autopsy you could ever ask for
because he wanted to make sure he got it
right and the bullets were right the
back of Bobby's head and every and all
the hundreds of people in that kitchen
that night said you know strain was
standing several feet in front of it you
don't have a clear case of a second gun
then Bobby Kennedy's even more clear
than the JA Kennedy story and people
don't want to look at it you know I
remember for twenty years thirty years I
didn't want to look at I thought I was
being hopelessly paranoid by even
thinking about because that's that's the
duh and the overwhelming reason is
because the powers would be the
decision-makers in this country know
that if you really were to crack the
Kennedy assassinations or the Martin
Luther King or the MLK that all these
terrible things are going to come out
that are going to be permanently
damaging and they would be permanently
damaging to the image to this country
but they would also be very healing
that's how you do an operation you cut
you go inside you pull out the poison
and you allow the body to heal but they
don't want to do the work and there's a
reason why because they like it the way
it is you know I'm talk about the New
York Times I'm not talking about Donald
Trump
I'm talking about the wisest post about
talking about my pets first all right if
all these things came to be known there
was some sort of Truth and
Reconciliation I got that I want is the
truth and reconciliation commission the
United States yeah how do you think that
would kind of change our politics if you
have to oh it would be fundamentally
this is what a lot of us have been
calling for for twenty thirty years now
you know and there has to be some kind
of epic shock so to get a Truth and
Reconciliation Commission there has to
be some kind of event that that gets
everybody thinking anew maybe its
climate change and you know maybe it's
another war god help us know ah maybe
it's another sash in the assassination
let's hope not you know maybe it's some
kind of positive shot but in any case
again what doesn't matter what your
economics are uh until we would South
Africa has done that and it didn't fix
everything by longshot they got plenty
of their own problems but the problems
now they're talking about economic
problems we're not talking about racial
problems anymore that's a step in the
right direction
we are we've got plenty of racial
problems of our own but I would offer
that our problems are primarily economic
in nature you can't live in the richest
country on earth and have millions of
people doomed to poverty not only in the
cities but in the heartland no-trumps
people when you do people to that and
they see the bubbles on television every
day you know people go crazy they go
crazy and it's understandable
so we we're caught in a nightmare of our
own baking you know based on the fact
that we're the richest country in the
world and uh I think it's going to
change in my lifetime because I'm
watching you know everything fall apart
around I don't think it's a bad thing I
think it's a good thing you know I think
there has to be dislocation with even if
it means people like Trump yeah which i
think is really caused us all to take a
deep breath I mean when you allow when
you elected demand
person to become president and I
understand why he got elected because
you know he said he'd stopped the Train
problem he'd stopped the outflow of jobs
overseas he said a lot of things that
are very important but he doesn't have a
plan and he doesn't have method and he's
not interested in social justice but
that's you know that's what's happening
all over the world it's not just
happening here is happening France
Britain you name it so we live an
interesting talk I'm looking forward to
seeing what happens tomorrow
certainly so certainly so um well I'm I
really appreciate you I don't want to
keep you I would uh if I could ask you
one more question is that all right sure
I the 2017 we've got you know we've been
talking about what would happen if these
things are more opened up in 2017 is
supposed to be the year where the ARR B
files come out so what is there that in
is there anything in there that you're
particularly looking forward to kind of
getting unclassified or do there's all
kinds of good things in there yeah you
know my attitude is always the same
let's read what we got and if we get any
more good things 2017 that's great uh
you know I think the important thing is
to use this moment to calmly educate as
many people as we can and on the
importance of reclaiming American
history and you know the importance of
good scholarship good and good research
good analysis and good hard thinking and
not being afraid to question one another
about what we think and doing it in a
respectful way you know with a lot of
humility on all sides when you do that
that spirit of inquiry cut cooperation I
think is catching and that's the real
power of the internet that's the real
power of you know building communities
that are based on and networks that are
based on social justice instead of fear
and I hate people like Alex James I just
can't say enough bad things I love
people like John I can't say enough good
things about John
that to me is the exemplar what you want
to strive for is you know when you've
got people in various walks of life that
are willing to no jobs was an Army
Intelligence guy I'm sure he's not
enjoying fingering the CIA and his
former cohorts for their misdeeds but
he's willing to you know look at it hard
and ask our questions that's the spirit
of inquiry and I think if we do it in
our own communities you know you're if
you're in a college community you know
questioning you know the justice of your
own friends and the social justice the
circles you are you treating other
people with the same respect that you
demand from everybody else now that's
that spirit of mutual respect I think is
infectious and it travels really well
it's been a fantastic conversation we've
covered tons of stuff is there anything
else if you want to add or do you wanna
is there anything else you want to talk
a little more about I mean I know
anything I want to add is I think the
importance in you know robust inquiry
and you know that and the danger of you
know linking two things together and you
know pronouncing the case closed or you
know conspiracy most issues are not as
simple as conspiracy or click case
closed most issues demand further
inquiry and a lot of times you don't
know what the endgame is going to be or
if there's going to be an ending and it
speaking to my own personal time at this
what I love it is you know if I try to
focus on what I really care about like
this year I'm really joint understanding
the roots of the us-cuba war in the
early sixties and as I do that I wind up
learning more about the assassination I
think I would have ever learned if I try
to solve something so I think if you
choose a powerful inquiry for yourself
that's related to your essential quest
you'll actually get more and stronger
answers to your central quest and you
would if you attacked it head on
so is that your next is that kind of
what you're working on now you're kind
of look right now I'm working on that
because I really want to be able then
come out over to have a pretty good
glossary of all the different pseudonyms
and Krypton M's cracked so that when we
read these documents we'll know what
we're reading because you can't read
document if you can't understand the
code and Mary Farrell where I'm able to
help up you know we've got a fantastic
decoder ring and it's the Mary for your
old foundations a website you can
literally go to the documents and now
we've cracked so many of these that you
little red lines under the 1 million
documents and every time you get to one
of these code names you we got an
underline saying you know go over here
and you'll find the T oh that's cool
that's very cool it's very cool I love
that kind of thing it's like it's puzzle
solving and it's very satisfying
huzi has the internet you know how the
internet and computers really changed
the way you were doing things since you
were doing them in the early 90s kind of
yeah absolutely I mean in fact I said I
was not going to get involved in
researching the Kennedy case until I ran
into Mary Farrow I said you know nobody
can really it's not worth the time you
know it just takes too long and then all
of a sudden you know Mary Farrell pops
up you know eight ten years ago and
they've got the ability to if you can
put a number in there you know which is
somebody's code number and that will
lead you to another code number and
that'll lead you to the person's name
and then out now all aside you've
cracked person's name people were trying
to find out for 50 years with that
person what you're like I can do that I
don't even have to write down any notes
you know all I have to do is maybe you
know I keep a couple hyperlinks of what
I've done and move one so that's a very
powerful and it's very satisfying and
it's very analytical and you know it's
not alternative fact
you know you're not arguing with Alex
Jones and you're not arguing with Donald
Trump about whether this is true or not
you can make a determination yeah this
is true yes false or yeah this requires
further investigation and because those
of us who you know enjoy doing this kind
of thing you know it's it's a wonderful
tool it sure beats watching television
oh you know it's a lot more satisfying
and you have a product at the end of the
deck all right are there so there's a
Mary Farrell are there some other
resources online that you would direct
people to to either learn about you know
JFK or any of these other topics we've
been discussing well that's a good
question uh there's so many good
websites that I hesitate to recite very
many if you're interested in the Kennedy
case the Harold Weisberg website with
Hood University you could type in
weisberg or hood and you'll find it it's
got some really interesting documents
you won't find on Mary Carol so I would
recommend that uh if for the hardcore
researcher like me um and for the more
generalist if you're not interested in
the very first got good stuff on the two
kennedy cases in Watergate iran-contra
you know I'm you know what I've never
found I'd like to find it's a good one
on 9/11 that case is so it's been so
polarized between black and white and I
Pro uh that I've looked
there's not many good websites for 9/11
online and which I find particularly
frustrating because it's one of the
great research tasks of our times and I
don't know how to do it in quote neutral
environment right now all right
of course I don't study it well enough
to say but I would ask people to think
about why that is I think part of it is
due to the intelligence agencies making
life is difficult as possible I think
part of it is due to our own people so
post-traumatic stress even many years
later that they're unable to work
together when you lose people like bat
Tybee who wrote a whole book
back in the 911 boom he so alienated
after all of his great work around the
banks and all that that you know you
really you know that's when all of us
should look at each other and say yeah
there's something really wrong with the
way we're working because this should
not be if we were a stronger more robust
community and network oriented people we
would be able to find ways to work
together more effectively and I
criticize I don't want to end another
criticism rather notice reflection uh
those of us doing the Kennedy work we
fight with each other all the time it's
when we find a small group that works
together well we get a lot done and the
same is true with black lives matter it
took years and years gears for the black
lives matter people to find each other
and they did same with the Occupy people
they finally found each other same with
the Sanders people they finally found
each other and that the task is how do
you find like-minded people that are
able to work together without fighting
among one another that's where I'd like
to leave it because when you have it
good powerful groups who can work
together in a functional manner you can
do it amazing text well I think that is
a great note to end on and I was really
it was a great conversation I'm glad we
got the cover
you know the JP gates a lot but also
bring in a lot of other things so I
really appreciate you uh you know taking
the time to talk to me and I hope we do
it again sometime
thank you David I enjoyed it appreciate
it thanks a lot though take care now
this has been our hidden history
you